The Dell Inspiron 5150 is a powerful notebook with some nice components to give you plenty of power and needs on the go! The power of this notebook is run by the 3.06GHz mobile Intel Pentium 4 processor with 333MHz of DDR memory and the ATI Mobility Radeon 9000 graphics chip.  
 
The Inspiron 5150 is upgradeable with several options, this one that I am reviewing has 512MB of 333MHz DDR RAM, and 64MB of 266MHz RAM for the ATI Mobility Radeon 9000 graphics chip.  
 
Other features include a 15" Ultra Sharp UXGA Display, a 60GB Ultra ATA Hard Drive and a 2x CD/DVD burner. (DVD+RW/+R) Added upgrades for Microsoft Windows XP Professional and Microsoft Works Suite 2003. We added a leather case which brought the cost to $2377 before tax with a 1 Year Limited Warranty plus 1 Year At-Home Service. The Dell Inspiron 5150 starts as low as $1499.  
 
The Memory  
One disappointment in upgrading the Inspiron 5150 was the memory. The 5150 comes with two slots and the 512 MB of memory for one slot was $150 higher in price, so we settled on two 256MB chips. Here is one of those deals that Dell continues to rip off the consumer because the price of two 256MB chips and the one 512MB chip should be about $20 difference in cost.  
 
The good part is they are using PC 2700 333MHz DDR memory for a faster performance.  
 
The Processor  
The Dell Inspiron 5150 is available with only one processor, the 3.06GHz mobile Intel Pentium 4 processor with on-die 512K L2 cache and 533 MHz Front Side Bus.  
 
This is plenty of processor for anything that you may need for now.  
 
The Display  
The Inspiron 5150 comes standard with a 15" SXGA display and an upgrade to a 15” UltraSharp UXGA TFT high-resolution display.  
 
The upgrade to the 15" Ultra Sharp UXGA Display was a good investment because the display is crystal clear with brilliant colors.  
 
Graphics  
The choice to go with the ATI Mobility Radeon 9000 graphics was a great idea. It comes standard with 32MB of DDR RAM running at 266MHz. It is an AGP 4x graphics card and can be ordered with the 64MB installed. I highly recommend the 64MB over the 32MB.  
 
Other Features  
FireWire  
S-Video-out,  
VGA, Ethernet  
Two USB 2.0 ports  
A 56Kbps-modem V.92  
One Type II PC Card slot  
A jack for headphones and a jack for a microphone  
 
The Looks  
The Dell Inspiron 5150 comes in a new Moonlight Silver and Venice blue that makes it look very attractive.  
 
Looking at and around the notebook in the Front & Top you have the 15 inch screen, keyboard, mouse pad and a pair of front mounted speakers.  
 
The left side has a PCMCIA Type I/II card Slot, Microphone/headphone jacks and a Media bay. The right side has the 56K modem.  
 
The rear has an AC adapter plug-in, S-video out, Two USB ports, Monitor out, IEEE 1304 port and 10/100 Ethernet port. The bottom has an access door for the memory, the hard drive and battery compartment.  
 
Overall  
Dell didn’t include a serial or PS/2 port; these are ports that are outdated today. No big loss on these ports I think you will see them disappear from most systems yet to come. Good choice Dell!  
 
Overall the performance is fast; playing DVD movies are no problem at all with a clear and smooth running movie. Games are fast and produce beautiful graphics with no hesitation at all.  
 
Color is beautiful on anything that you do with the Inspiron 5150; the games are the most impressive.  
 
The sound through the speakers are fair, they are missing a good bass sound. Adding a nice set of speakers for use at home would be helpful.  
 
The built-in mouse is easy to use, not as good as a regular cordless mouse but for trips it will do fine. At home I still prefer a USB cordless Optical mouse.  
 
I was very impressed with the battery use; I get roughly 4 hours of usage before I need to recharge it. An extra battery here could get you around 8 hours of usage, this maybe something to consider if you are on the go a lot.  
 
I am very impressed with the quality that went into this notebook, in my book the Dell Inspiron 5150 is one of their best computers on the market today!  


Any Dell can be fit into the same category. Cheap but overpriced. Check out the reviews at www.epininions.com/cmhd_desktops-Dell-general  
Be sure to click on sort by date. I will start to have Dell of the week reviews.  
 
The Dell 2350(MPN-D235RH) is another example of great Gimmick pricing.  
 
Based on a comment for the celeron version of these Dell pieces. I felt I couldn't just alter my other review. However, since Dells have almost the same garbage in different flavors. I can write another piece and cover some of the missing issues.  
 
What makes this version different from the celeron version. Maybe you are PAYING $600 more for the privilege of saying you have a OEM version P4 Intel 2.5GHz processor. Wow, that upgrade must really hurt for investors impressed by the upsell of another OEM processor. OEM again means Dell is burning the clock on a 30 day warranty from Intel. Not you, the perspective. Your warranty on the processor will most likely have been expired several days / months before your machine ever ships. You'll never know. Except for the time your frustration and stress factors build as you wait for your machine to be fixed.  
 
The cases on any Dell are almost identical. A lot of research and money put into appeal, but not functionality. Can you believe a computer company is still installing 250W power supplies in their computers? Technology leader. What a joke. Sales leader of Junk is more appropriate. Maybe in the future, when Dell catches up with the technology leaders, a Dell case will support 10 bays as the majority of quality cases do. As well as a minimum 300-350W power supply.  
 
The only valuable piece of hardware in this Dell is actually the Harmon Kardon Speakers. And surprisingly Dell lets you know it is included in the system. Are you curious? Now ask who the manufacturers are for the rest of the computer.  
 
Wow, it comes with a 15" Flat screen. Right click on the screen. Go into settings tab. Click on advanced button. Pick monitor tab. Change the monitor frequency to 75 Hertz, which is a minimum cofortable setting for human vision. These very cheap flat screens will start freaking out above 70 Hertz. Plus again, An embarrassing manufacturer Dell is to embarrassed to disclose. And no Dell is not the manufacturer.  
 
Memory is coming down in pricing. But Microsoft is always requiring more. And other than being some of the lowest quality Dell memory for a computer. This is where Dell will make up for that low price. XP operating systems require having a minimum of 128MB to run effectively. If you need to add programs. You need to add memory. Dell upgrades are truly overpriced. So when you believe you are moving toward an Ultimate platform, You are really progressing toward an ultimate reaming. For a modern system you are really being mislead with only 128MB of memory. This model does come with 512MB. But what is it? It is not Dell memory. It only has a Dell logo on it.  
 
The Motherboard in this pile is a microboard. Great for an office environment, Internet only surfing, or elementary and pre-adolescents. Dell motherboards have very secretive Specs and very poor architecture. A good reason for a company to maintain a large repair and engineering staff. Bios is locked down and very difficult to enter. Almost every other manufacturer of motherboard is not afraid to give knowledgeable or trained individuals the capability to enter the bios settings. But then again, some people need to hide the truth. Most, if not all microboards have around 2 PCI slots and an AGP slot. They will have Integrated Video, LAN, and typically AC97 audio. Do you feel the surge of excitement when you find out your system has Intel 3d Extreme Graphics? OOOh! sorry truthfully you only an on board video chipset with 32MB capabilities. And it pulls from your memory cache. So, remember your 128MB system. It is now only about 96MB at full speed.  
 
When you move into CD-Roms. I was asked the question of what the difference is between a 48x and 52x. The answer is very little. around 400k per second. However, we are in the 21st century or so I had thought. That is not meant to be an offensive statement to the commentator by the way. That was an excellent question. It seems to me that 48x were available around the turn of the century or before. We sell DVD 16x for $65 off the shelf. And my cost is so insignificant between CD-rom and DVD that I hardly ever try to sell CD-Rom unless a perspective just has to pinch those pennies. I just wonder how much dust is being blown off those CD-Roms before they go into a supposed new Dell. This model does come with a 16x DVD-rom. But again who is the manufacturer? Why is Dell afraid to disclose who makes their parts? Sorry people their is nothing that Dell has actually made themselves except the Dell logo on the case and the sticker on their imaged software. And just remember, Upgrade means nice commission increase to a dell salesteam.  
 
The Hard drives in these systems are truly another joke. Or another question for turn of the century. 5400 RPM usually. That is almost as fast as a Volkswagon diesel car climbing a hill with a 5% grade. Let the old have a peaceful euthanization. Even 7200 RPM has been updated with 10K RPM hard drives. And 10K is as fast as owning a SCSI hard drive for a third of the price. You just can not Daisy chain several IDE hard drives. Another modern convenience is the development or hard drives with 8MB caches. Or memory on the hard drive. Hard to believe but it allows faster file accessing, and internet or web caching. Memory is local to the hard drive instead of pulling resources from the memory on the motherboard. This model surprisingly has a 7200 RPM HDD, But it does not have the 8MB cache and it is also an unknown or generic manufacturer that Dell is too embarrassed to disclose.  
 
One of the greatest jokes of owning a Dell machine is their Imaged software and included spamware. It is true some of the other large names use Imaged software. Most of the other names can have a full version operating system installed on them with little or no headaches. Plan on sticking with the Image disk or x-file the Dell where it belongs in some dumpster. The reason you receive Imaged software on systems like this is because of buying in bulk for one. Imaged CD-Rom media is probably pennies for companies like Dell. And they shave around $40 dollars per full OS media disk from Microsoft. If you are happy with your Dell after a few months, you will not care about having imaged Operating System media. If you are not, sorry can't use your media on different systems. You have to buy imaged software for different machine or purchase full version after learning from your pain. And do plan on a lot of pain if you wish to install full version OS's on a Dell system. Do not be mislead by home version either. Win 95, 98, millenium, and XP Home is garbage. I do not recommend, sell, or install this garbage unless a client already has made the mistake of owning it. If they can return it, I always recommend the wise move. Lock-ups, poor system resourcing, will not join a domain, No internet firewall. Hopefully, microsoft will euthanize this worthless, sad architecture. Invest in XP profesional without Dell, Gateway, or some other companies imaged garbage on the media. You will never regret it. Other than worthless operating system software you will also have several Gigabytes of useless spamware. Great publicity and marketing charges to hopeful companies to place junk and/or unwanted programs on you system. You can plan on losing up to 10GB of your system to this garbage (i.e. AOL, Bonzie buddie, music match jukebox, modem on hold, etc.) You really didn't get something for a great price. You still have to pay to get it or make it right in the end.  
 
Last, if not the greatest joke about Dell is their Service and warranty enhancements. As I have said in a previous review, it is a wise investment for a phone headset with a dell machine. When you call for support, you can rest your arms or twiddle your thumbs. Plus if you are a light sleeper you can rest while you wait for help. Next day support does not mean your system is fixed the next day. You will hopefully get a call, for a scheduled repair. Also, as our company is sub-contracted by a Dell agent, your support is usually provided by a sub-contracted local computer store or individual. You should not have to Pay an extra for something that is usually provided by manufacturers of quality components. Quality parts typically come with a 3 year manufacturer warranty. Some people have a tolerance for pain. If you plan on buying a Dell Plan on the enhancement for as long as you plan to have it. Or research some companies like ours, who stand behind their systems locally. We have been in this business for over 12 years with hundreds of computer builds and our phones are not ringing off the hook for returns or low quality systems.  
 
Case in point  
We just sold 2 systems to a client with this Dell comparison including a 17" Black LCD. Exactly what this system has with the included hidden specs for $1493 ea. The perspective had initiated an order with Dell, but called back for immediate termination after my following proposal:  
 
Blk window case w/ 320W ATX power and 2 80mm fans  
Aopen AK77 400N motherboard  
(400 MHz FSB, 5 PCI, 8x AGP, 6 ch audio, LAN)  
AMD XP2200 with Heatsink and Fan  
512MB PC2100 DDR memory  
WD 40GB w/ 8MB cache 7200 RPM  
Mitsumi 1.44 FDD Blk  
Sony 16x DVD-Rom Blk  
Gainsward Geforce MX400 64MB w/TV out  
Creative 56K modem  
Blk 104 key Standard, 3 button scroll, & 2 Pc 180W Spkr)  
Hyundai L70-S LCD 17" BLK/SLV  
Windows XP pro  
Limited 1 year warranty  
 
I sold 2 systems and made over $450 profit from each. After limited warranty if anything does happen to fail, rarely. Client pays shipping and we help with RMA. We don't have to worry about this promise because quality parts with 3 year warranties rarely fail. Also if you prefer an intel system as we are Intel and AMD partners, add $150 and my systems will still out-perform and stand above any Dell system. There are quality and Leading technology computer companies out there if you put some effort into the search. And if you are foolish or have the opportunity to pay those Dell upgrades. Instead of PAYING for it, INVEST and INVESTIGATE a more custom system. If you can break the $1000 dollar investment range, companies like ours will kick the crap out of any Dell quote for price, quality, and performance. Any company, who puts so much effort into marketing, needs it to sell low quality products. I truly do not mind making lots of money off of Dell service work. But the complaints are really over-whelming. And I really would like to recommend K-y or vaseline and tell Whiny Dell owners to accept the inevitable. Bend over and take Dell like a......  
 
I have to truly applaud Dell for their sales abilities. If you are willing to Invest $1500 dollars, You should have a great entry to mid level system. However, It will never be a Dell. Not in my opinion and I believe several of the silent majority as well. Or individuals who are to embarrassed to admit they feel like they flushed their money down the toilet. I hate seeing the pain on clients faces, when they enter our store with yet another fairly new Dell. "Please fix it, I can't get any help from Dell support.""I'm tired of being on the phone for what seems like hours with someone truly unhelpful.""Yes, I do have a service /warranty contract, little good it does me.""It's not even 6 months old, why the hell is it not working." "How much to fix it??"And the Dell pain goes on and on. Now riddle me this. If your sales people were not super friendly and helpful about selling a pile of crap would they still work for you? Of course Dell sales is exceptional. With as much money as Dell puts into Marketing and TV, It is no wonder people can follow their animals around the yard. Scooping up something to hide in a colorful, fancy wrapper. And calling it a Dimension, or whatever. There is always someone who will buy it.  
 
Overall  
 
Dells suck. Performance wise, Architecture wise, Modern parts are few and far between. Yes, it is cheap. Until the upgrades and enhancements come into play. Then you would have been better off researching local references. The most entertaining thing is to see reviews from people who have owned their Dells for less than 3-4 months. Please....Any intelligent person can put together a system and make it seem like the latest, fastest, and coolest rocket ship. Wait until you own it more than the return period or closer to expired warranties. Experience some Dell support. Than write your reviews. And hopefully, also weed out some of the Dell employees who are obligated to write reviews.  
 
If you like large names and fancy marketing, buy a gateway system. Ask for a full version Operating system. Have someone with experience do an install with pro version. SAY NO to free spamware. It's on the internet if you really want it. You will enjoy a lot less stress and aggravation. Or research and investigate some local companies and their references. Be smart and Be happy. Buying a computer is as important as shopping for a good vehicle. Dell is just a large, slick car lot.  

I have been a Mac user for many years. When I started a consultancy business recently I bought an Apple Ti Powerbook. It nearly cost me the business.  
 
The packaging was delightful as was the design. Lots of curious and envious looks whenever it came out of its bag in meetings, presentations and cafes! Other pluses were the battery life, beautiful screen and thin profile.  
 
Unfortunately I was forced to sell it due to on-going reliability and engineering issues. These became so bad the unit was no longer reliable. I could not trust it - even started to really really hate it.  
 
The battery connection was very unreliable. I have had many embarassing unexpected shutdowns midway through important presentations. What made it worse was I work with predominantly Windows-based clients, and having to defend this non-Windows laptop was no enviable task.  
 
The screen did not close properly from day one. The right edge floated above the bottom chassis when shut. There was no protection for the screen when shut - one day I found a wad of business cards had actually fallen in between the screen and the base, this was with the lid shut!  
 
I hated the slot drive after about the 5th use. Imagine not being able to return a disc a client had asked me to look at because it was stuck inside this expensive "toy"! Bad news was I could not remove the useless drive, thus having to still carry it around despite not using it.  
 
Heat was an issue, the very loud fan was a right embarassment in the boardroom (where there were other noticeably quieter Windows laptops around).  
 
To top it all off Apple's service was slow and dogged by part shortages (good intentions only went so far). There were only so many weeks I could be without a computer. I believe my business (certainly my sanity) suffered because of the poor quality of this laptop.  
 
I switched to an IBM thinkpad after this. It was cheaper, very solidly built, quiet, and came with 3 year return to base warranty (compared with Apple's 1). And Windows is not bad after you get used to it.  

The name Apple Computer is synonymous with quality hardware and happy users. Many will be happy to find that the latest high-end system from Apple doesn't break the mold.  
 
Hardware Overview  
 
The specs are listed for this computer by Epinions so I won't waste space with those. However, I'll point out some interesting things that are new and/or noteable on this system.  
 
The 1.42 ghz system has a better looking hardware package than its 1.25 ghz sibling. This computer's enhancements include:  
 
166 megahertz speed increase  
 
120 gigabyte hard drive (40 gb more than the 1.25 system)  
 
512 megabytes of RAM (256 mb more than the 1.25 system)  
 
2 mb L3 cache *see: http://www.apple.com/powermac/architecture.html* (1 mb more than the 1.25 system)  
 
The following are improvements over the previous generation of Powermacs and are included in all current Powermacs:  
 
An optional DVD/CD reader and burner (Superdrive).  
 
Firewire 800 technology (an advanced form of the origional firewire interface allows for external devices to be connected to the computer at up to two times the speed of the origional firewire.)  
 
Airport Extreme (the next generation of wireless networking capabilities. Uses the "g" technology of wireless interfacing to allow for up to 54 mbps, which is improved from the former 11 mpps.)  
 
 
Experience  
 
Truly a joy to use. I've loved this system from the day I opened it up. It comes boxed and packed precisely and carefully. After I got it up and running, I put my old backed up data onto this system and was running immediately.  
 
I realize that many are unfamiliar with the Apple world, however. For you, I can say that this system works just like the other Apple systems, just much faster. There aren't any additional hurdles to learning the operating system or specialized hardware. This computer is very quick and accessible to anybody.  
 
The operating system is called "OSX". The X is for 10. Look for reviews for "OS 10.2: Jaguar" if you want to read about experiences with the Apple OS.  
 
So far, I've had my computer for about two and a half months. I've had no hardware problems. I've upgraded the RAM and added an Airport Extreme card into the computer. The total time spent on these tasks would be less than 2 minutes. I've been impressed with how intuitive everything is.  
 
Performance  
This is a great computer. The reason it won't recieve a full score is that it doesn't have the speed of the current PC systems. Motorola, Apple's G4 chip makers, has not put the money into R&D necessary to keep up with Intel and AMD. This is not to say that the Apple system is a pushover. It will finish many tests with a slightly slower score than a PC with over double the megahertz (3 ghz Intel systems are now commonplace). In some cases, the 1.42 ghz Apple system will outperform the competition. I make these points to illustrate that the gap is not devastating.  
 
I burn CDs at 32x and have the cutting edge wireless technology in Airport Extreme, mentioned earlier. Productivity in all areas is perfectly acceptable.  
 
The real draw for this computer is the operating system. OSX is revolutionary and addictive. If it would run on any other system, I'm sure Apple wouldn't sell many 1.42 ghz systems because people would buy the best hardware and the best software. That not being possible, I'd rather take the best software and mid-line hardware. I absolutely love the OS so slightly slower test scores could not dissuade me from purchasing this computer.  
 
Conclusion  
 
My recommendation to everybody is to try out Apple's OSX. If you like it, then this computer is more than worth your money. If you don't, then I don't see any reason to get this system. It's a bit slower than the competition, after all. Either way, I and many other Apple users will be having a great time with our computers.  
 
Final Note  
Those interested should wait until June 27th to find out if Apple releases their newest systems then. Keep an eye out at Apple's website (Apple.com) or other sites to know when your dollars will be best spent.  


Synopsis :  
 
Hardware : Above Average.  
Software and setup : Substandard  
Customer Service: Horrifying, atrocious, ghastly, hideous, horrific, dreadful, horrendous, and appalling.  
 
Please read the following for specific details.  
 
Hardware:  
The system is integrated well, and everything was functional when delivered. The components are name brand, and seem to be of above average quality. System configuration, as ordered:  
 
1 221-2537 Dimension 4600 Series, Intel Pentium 4 Processor at 2.4GHz  
1 462-1656 512MB DDR SDRAM at 333MHz  
1 310-4164 Wireless Keyboard and Mouse Desktop Solution  
1 320-4600 17IN(16.0IN VIS)E773c Monitor,Midnight Grey,Dimension  
1 320-0735 128MB DDR NVidia GeForce FX 5200 graphics card  
1 462-1743 J740 Inkjet Printer Driver  
1 462-3281 80GB 7200 RPM Ultra ATA Hard Drive  
1 340-8860 3.5in Floppy Drive  
1 313-7222 Dell Application Back-up CD, Factory Install  
1 420-1921 Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition,Service Pack 1,English  
1 412-0409 Generic Dimension Dell Support  
1 310-1966 Mouse included in Logitech Wireless Package  
1 430-0412 Intel Pro 100M Integrated PCI NIC Card  
1 313-1313 56K PCI Data Fax Modem for Windows  
1 313-0917 16X DVD-Rom Drive  
1 430-0462 Cyberlink Software Decoding for DVD Drives with six channels  
1 313-2758 Integrated Audio  
1 313-2198 No Speaker Requested  
1 412-0547 NETWORK ASSOCIATES MCAFEE.COM,OEM,ENGLISH, 90 DAY TRIAL,FACTORY INSTALLED  
1 412-0298 MusicMatch 7.1x Basic  
1 412-0271 Dell Picture Studio Image Expert Standard,Dimension  
1 412-0273 Dell Picture Studio Paint ShopPro Try and Buy,Dimension  
1 412-0441 AOL 8.0 DHS  
1 420-3224 Broadband Icon for Inspiron  
1 412-0380 Real Network RealOne Player Basic,Version 6,US English  
1 412-0395 Word Perfect Productivity Pack  
1 412-0551 Money 2004 Standard Version for Dimension  
1 412-0555 Microsoft Enclyclopedia,2004 for Dimension  
1 950-4430 Type 3- Third Party At Home Service, 24x7 Technical Support, Initial Year  
1 950-3337 1 Year Limited Warranty  
1 950-9797 No Warranty, Year 2 and 3  
1 412-0359 Soft Contracts - Qualxserve  
1 462-0984 Informational Only - High Speed Internet Billed Separately  
1 460-9055 DHS Instant $100 Off  
 
 
The MiniTower Case is relatively user friendly if you do not want to add a lot to your new PC. It provides (2) 5.25" drive bays in the front, and the integrated floppy opening. There are (2) Internal 3.5" bays, one of which is used by the Hitachi Hard drive. This permits installation of another Hard Drive if you wish.  
 
The floppy drive does NOT come standard, but you may add one to your system for Twenty dollars, as my family and I did. I personally feel this is misleading, since almost every PC comes with a floppy drive, and it appears to be one way Dell is trying to keep the cost of their advertised systems under the competition's.  
 
There are (2) USB 2.0 Ports in front for easy access, plus six more in the back, providing plenty of room for USB accessories.  
 
There is a headphone jack in the front for easy access as well.  
 
There is (1) external 9 pin serial port, and (1) 25 pin Printer port which supports ECP, EPP, and Bi-directional communication.  
 
There is a PS/2 connector for a keyboard, and one for a mouse. A standard PS2 keyboard and Roller Ball mouse comes standard with all Dell PCs. If you add a wireless combo, they do not send these. For this reason, I suggest you order any different keyboard and / or mouse separately since there is no price break in "upgrading" at the time of purchase. You can always keep the standard units as backups.  
 
The power supply is 250 Watts which may be a bit underpowered if you want to add a lot of accessories, but considering the limited expansion slots, this will likely never be an issue.  
 
The motherboard appears to be an Intel Motherboard, consistent with most Dell configurations. These are jumperless boards, and operate well, but Gamers may not appreciate the lack of overclocking ability. Since September there have been (2) BIOS updates to resolve hardware issues with the Network Adapter and allow for the use of faster CPUs..  
 
There are 4 available expansion slots in the back, one of which was utilized by the PCI WinModem, and one by my AGP display adapter upgrade. This leaves (2) PCI slots for accessories.  
 
The integrated NIC is an Intel(R) PRO/100 VE Network Connection and seems to work well I suggest downloading the driver from Intel instead of using the Microsoft driver. This provides additional flexibility and options for configuring your network card, and permits 'power users' to extract additional network performance.  
 
I do not use the 56K Conextant WinModem since I have Cable Access for the internet. I may remove this PCI card should I desire the PCI slot at some time in the future.  
 
The Integrated Audio option I chose ended up being "SoundMax Integrated Digital Audio" and is perfectly satisfactory to me. One can always upgrade through an available PCI slot should they wish if it does not meet their needs. There are connectors for Line IN, Line Out, Microphone, surround and center/low-frequency effects (LFE) channel.  
 
Inside there are two 7-pin serial-ATA connectors on the motherboard. Serial ATA hard drives provide faster performance that Enhanced IDE drives. This is a nice option to have available.  
 
The motherboard was available with 400, 533, or 800 MHz front side bus, which improves performance with each higher step. Because my budget was not unlimited, I settled for the 533 FSB, and performance seems adequate. The processor can be upgraded through 3 Gigahertz should I find that performance ever seems lacking. With future BIOS upgrades, it is possible that this speed will be increased.  
 
There are (4) Memory slots for DDR memory, two of which are filled with 256 Meg memory modules. Memory can be upgraded to a whopping 4 GIGS or RAM! This should satisfy the most memory hungry users and / or applications at this time. The memory supported is up to 400 MHz Non-ECC DDR SDRAM.  
 
The Intel Chipset used is the 865PE, and I am satisfied with its performance. It does not appear to be as buggy as some previous Intel Chipsets, but is also not noted for extreme performance and overclocking capabilities. None of this concerns me, personally.  
 
The AGP slot supports 1x, 2x, 4x, and 8x AGP. I chose the 128MB DDR NVidia GeForce FX 5200 graphics card and am quite happy with the performance. I probably could have gotten the same card for less money elsewhere if I wanted to shop around, but did not find the upgrade prohibitive in cost.  
 
The Dell Wireless Keyboard / Mouse combination is manufactured by HI-TEK CORPORATION, a company that manufactures OEM products for Manufacturers, and is not particularly noted for high quality products. It is USB only, even though the web site listed a PS/2 adapter with it. When connected to the USB port it detected well, but no matter where I placed the receiver it did not communicate with the keyboard and mouse well. I finally decided to return it, but this is another story, found below.  
 
The DVD-ROM could have been either a Lite-On or a Samsung. I ended up with the Samsung. It reads CDs as well as DVDs. Performance is acceptable, since I installed my own 52 X 24 X 52 CD-RW for my primary CD-ROM.  
 
The hard disk is a Hitachi. They may not be the best on the market, but they are better than many, such as Fujitsu. Performance seems adequate, although certainly not as good as the Western Digital drives with 8 Meg Buffers. Since I have a new 180 Gig Western Digital, I will likely replace the Hitachi 80 Gig drive with the western Digital, and use the Hitachi as a backup for important data, only connecting it when I wish to update my backup.  
 
At first, I found the computer to be very slow, and I was greatly disappointed. My old Pentium III 550 seemed much faster. Once I checked to see what programs were running, I realized that this was caused by numerous Dell software running and wasting memory and CPU cycles. I spent a week trying to remove and disable these utilities, and the end result was a much faster computer. There are still some problems where the system appears to lock up, and I am preparing to save all of my data and reload the operating system and the programs I want. I would encourage new buyers to do this themselves, before putting any data onto the drive. I will discuss the method to do so further down this review.  
 
 
Software:  
Dell installs many "system utilities" which degrade system performance and waste hard disk space. The typical end user will not have the technical expertise to disable all of the unnecessary services, disable or remove all of the Dell Spyware and Dell related Software that deteriorates System performance significantly, and the Shareware that become non-functional after 30 days from the date of first use. Because of this, I highly recommend removing hard drive partitions (erasing all software) and then re-installing the software from the provided CD-ROMs. I do NOT suggest using the Dell "Restore CD" which will reinstall all of the aforementioned software.  
 
Dell provides a System Restore CD which removes the drive partition and re-images the drive with a standard Dell setup / configuration, much as the Symantec software Ghost can do. This reloads all of the Dell Spyware and utilities that slow the computer down.  
 
Dell also includes the Operating System CD, in my case, Windows XP home. You may setup your system from scratch by placing this CD in the CD-ROM drive and restarting your system.  
 
This allows one to setup XP, and you should remove the drive partition(s) before proceeding with setup.  
Here is a link to a page from Microsoft detailing the process: http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;315341  
View "Method 2" and select "Install Now."  
When you complete the installation, be certain to install all Updates and patches by visiting http://windowsupdate.microsoft.com  
 
NOTE! This is not for the faint of heart or non-technically inclined! While I find this very simple, I have been working with computers since 1976. You may be better off having a knowledgeable friend perform the installation, or paying a local shop to do so. If you choose to do so yourself, be aware that you may render your computer inoperative if you do not perform this properly. I suggest that if you are in doubt, you seek assistance.  
 
After completing your operating system reinstallation, you will want to install the drivers and programs that came with the computer. Do not install anything you will not be using. You can always choose to install it at a later date. Loading fewer programs will give you more available disk space, and can improve system performance.  
 
There is a driver disk for the Modem drivers. When the Operating System prompts you for the modem drivers, put this CD in the CD-Rom drive to load the drivers.  
 
I do NOT suggest loading the Dell Diagnostics and utilities. Many of these run in your system tray, wasting your CPU cycles and memory. In short, they are bad for the system performance.  
 
WordPerfect came with the PC. I own MS Office XP, so I would choose not to install this software. If you do not own an alternative, you will want to install this.  
 
The Dell Provided Antivirus software(you have to pay for it after 30 days!), support software, multimedia software, and internet software are all on one CD. I suggest NOT loading this. Instead, download this Free, and highly effective Antivirus software from Grisoft: http://www.grisoft.com/us/us_dwnl_free.php  
 
 
Virus definitions are updated regularly, and it has protected my family for years. I highly recommend this.  
 
RealPlayer was on the CD, but you may download a version that does not send your data to Dell by going to http://www.real.com and downloading the free RealOne player.  
 
MusicMatch software is also included, but if you want that, you may download it by visiting that website at http://www.musicmatch.com You may read the details concerning registration before you decide it is right for you.  
 
Other programs that are “Try and Buy” are also available from their respective web sites without Dell's injected spyware, or you can find exactly what you want, either in Freeware, Shareware, or Commercial software.  
 
Microsoft Encarta 2004 and Microsoft Money 2004 were included. If you want to use these, load them. If you do not, don't. Again, you can load them later.  
 
Following these suggestions will provide you with a computer that runs the way it was meant to. It will be faster, and more stable that the way it was shipped to you.  
 
 
System Setup:  
Besides the problems listed under Software, above, all three of our systems had a Thirty Seven Megabyte FAT partition installed in addition to the Windows XP NTFS Partition. Perhaps this is installed to allow for System Hibernation with Power Savings. I recommend deleting this partition and using One (or two, depending on your technical abilities and preferences) partitions formatted with NTFS. I do not recommend the use of System Hibernation. Turning your computer off is more energy effective, and you do not have any problems that might be associated with system Hibernation.  
 
Customer Service:  
This is the major Problem with Purchasing from Dell.  
It is truly unfortunate that Dell Inc. has permitted their "Customer Care" to degrade as far as it has. The Dell Customer Care forums reflect the deterioration of their support, and are filled with customer accounts of Dell Staff not responding, delaying resolution, or providing inadequate resolution to customer problems.  
In my family, there were problems with two of the three orders we made at the same time.  
 
My wife completed the rebate form for both her computer and her Mom's computer, and mailed them at the same time at the same post office.  
 
System Order #1.) - My Mother-in-law:  
My Mother-in Law's order was fine, and she has not needed to contact Dell for assistance. She received her rebate check after a month.  
 
System Order #2.) My Wife:  
My Wife ordered the EXACT same thing as my mother in law. The order was fine, but she STILL has not gotten her rebate, and when she checked the Rebate Status page, there is nothing even shown about her rebate. She is attempting to resolve this matter at this time.  
 
System Order #3.) My Order:  
1) I ordered a system and upgraded the standard keyboard and mouse to the Dell Wireless Combo for $65.00. The description for this product showed a PS/2 Adapter, which I need to use my KVM (Keyboard / Mouse / Video switch.)  
 
2) When I opened the box, there was no adapter, and no reference to an adapter in the documents.  
 
3) I contacted Dell Technical support who immediately advised me that this unit is not compatible with PS/2 and cannot be adapted. They told me to contact customer care to send it back for a refund.  
 
4) On October 9, I contacted Dell Customer Care to arrange to send back the Wireless Combo for a refund. They agreed to send me a call tag for the unit and promised that they would issue full credit when they received it. I provided the correct shipping address to my home, since the system was sent to my Mother-in-Law's house in a different state.  
 
5) I had to call Dell Customer Care back and request the Standard Keyboard and Mouse that I was entitled to with my system purchase. Customer care had not offered to send it to me, and after explaining the matter, Keeve DTC39418 told me he would have them shipped to me.  
 
6) The Dell Customer Care site showed that Order# 497367046 for "Keyboard,104,6P,United States,Multi-Media,NMB" shipped on October 10, but to the wrong address. When I contacted Dell Customer care, they said they could not change the address since it was already shipped.  
 
7) On October 12, I got a call from my mother-in -Law telling me she had refused delivery of a Fed-Ex Package from Dell addressed to me.  
 
8) Immediately following this, I communicated with Pierre (Dell Customer Care Chat) who told me he had corrected the shipping address and would send the standard PS/2 Keyboard and Mouse to me at the newly corrected address. He told me that because of all the problems I had been experiencing, I did not have to return the wireless combo, but that I would receive credit for it. Ho told me that he had issued a credit for $55.28 "which is what I had paid for it." I explained that I had paid $65, and that the amount he referred to was the "October Special" price, but he disagreed.  
 
9) I contacted Dell for a month, no less than 20 times via e-mail, online chat, and Telephone, attempting to have the shipping address corrected and get the Keyboard and mouse sent to me at the correct address and to issue me the remaining $9.62 credit for the Wireless combo.  
 
10) On October 11, order# 530622076 showed as having shipped. To this day, it remains "In Transit."  
 
11) On October 12, I received credit for $55.27 for the $65 wireless combo purchased with the PC ordered in September.  
 
12) I continued to contact Dell Customer Care via e-mail, Customer Care Chat, and telephone on nearly a daily basis. (I have saved all inbound and outbound e-mails and chats.) Dell repeatedly apologized for the problems I experience, but nobody seemed to be able to resolve the matter.  
 
13) In early November, Raymond DTC28723 promised me that he would ship the standard Keyboard and Mouse to my home address. He requested, and I provided the correct shipping information. No shipment ever appeared, and no shipment ever occurred.  
 
14) On November 21, Raymond DTC28723 promised me that he would ship the standard Keyboard and Mouse to my home address. He requested, and I provided the correct shipping information.  
 
15) On November 21, I found Order# 542456257 was entered, showing the "ship date" as December 2. It was, unfortunately, not for "Keyboard,104,6P,United States,Multi-Media,NMB" (standard PS/2 Keyboard and Mouse) but rather, for another Dell Wireless Combo. I e-mailed Raymond DTC28723 several times, but did not get a reply.  
 
16) On November 22, the Shipping status of Order# 542456257 changed to "Processing, where it has remained to this day.  
 
17) On December 2, the "Ship Date" of order 542456257 changed to a blank. When I contacted Dell Customer Care, Raymond DTC28723 replied stating that Dell Financial Services had to approve this as a free shipment.  
 
18) On December 2, I posted over 15 separate contact names and addresses that I had been dealing with upon the Dell Customer Care Forum as the "Dell Wall of Shame" and filed a Consumer Complaint with  
 
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  
Office of Attorney General Mike Fischer  
Harrisburg, PA 17120  
 
 
Here is the list of contacts that were unable to resolve this simple matter after many dozens of contacts:  
 
1. Debbie (us_bcsd@dell.com)  
2. Josie_Garza@dell.com (Salesperson I dealt with)  
3. Dell Inc. E-Business Sales Division SMB_OnlineOrder_Resolution@dell.com)  
4. Jersey DTF229365  
5. Raymond DTC~28723 (repeatedly, and who made at least 2 promises to ship items he never did)  
6. Sydney DTC39425  
7. Arnold ~DTC47364  
8. carla_geronimo AGENT_ID 2819 (who may be the same person as number 9)  
9. Carla DTC69143  
10. Dominic DTC66961  
11. Sandy ~DTC65916  
12. Ronald ~DTC29559  
13. Keeve ~DTC39418  
14. Pierre (Dell Customer Care Chat)  
15. Robin (Dell Customer Care Chat)  
16. postmaster@Dell.com  
17. uscemcsd@dell.com  
 
19) After filing the complaint and notifying Customer Care and Dell Inc. E-Business Sales Division, I received an e-mail from each apologizing again, and promising prompt resolution. This is simply more of the same, and I am certain that only after judgment has been made against Dell that the matter will be resolved.  
 
It is quite frustrating to have to deal with so many individuals who are unable to resolve such a trivial matter. I have requested, repeatedly, that the matter be escalated to a supervisor, but this has never happened.  
 
In light of my experience, and the similar experiences of many others, I strongly urge any prospective Dell customers to make their purchases from a different company.  
 
Addendum:  
Here is an e-mail I sent in response to an offline conversation with on of the reviewers. They felt I should add this to my review, that it will help others. Here it is:  
 
 
If you do decide to buy a dell, make 100% certain that you order the standard setup. Then, go back and order any accessories as a separate order. This SHOULD prevent the problems I experienced. You can purchase upgrades by searching at www.techbargains.com, and get better upgrades for less money. While you are under warranty, Dell Tech Support is obligated to help you with technical queations such as "How do I install this" and "what are the specifications for memory for my computer so I may buy it at my local Office store", etc. The one time I dealt with technical support they were prompt, accurate, and helpful.  
 
Be advised that Tech Support and Customer Care are different.  
 
It is my opinion (also based upon a conversation with a technical support manager) that the customer care system is limited because of it's design.  
 
Dell is unable to CHANGE anything in an order. If something is defective, it is easy for dell to ship an exact replacement. This is not where the trouble lies.  
 
BUT, if you decide to CHANGE anything in the order, the system is so inflexible that they are unable to make a change.  
 
The Tech Support manager ALSO said that during the 1st 30 days, you may return the system for no charge (other than what it costs you to ship it back) so during that 1st 30 days, the salesperson with be very accommodating in order to protect their commission. It is after that 30 day period where you are likely to encounter problems since their commission is then secure.  
 
Also, you may wish to look into purchasing the PC of your choice with NO SOFTWARE. You can then go to your local staples, office max, office depot, etc and buy what you want, and load it yourself for a better performing system. You also get exactly what you want.  
 
The final option is to buy from a local business. Even a super-store will offer the advantage of face to face service with a representative if you have problems.  
 
The bottom line? The Dell hardware / software package is very cost effective. Do not buy with the expectations that you will get any support if you have problems. If you go into it with that attitude, you will not be disappointed.  
 
As a computer tech for decades, I am happy to offer assistance to any who ask. I may be unable to help with specific issues, and I may not be able to respond immediately, but I will do whatever I can to help. Also, there are forums like Expert-exchange (do a Google search) where I am also active. This is a collection of people trying to help one another. There are professionals who offer help, as well as home users. Take advice with a grain of salt if you have questions.  
 

At the end of July, I found it necessary to replace my trusty Dual 1GHz G4 (QuickSilver 2002). Since I've never before owned a "cutting edge" computer, always choosing to buy machines that were near their "end-of-life," I decided to take a chance on the hottest of the hot, the Dual 2GHz G5.  
 
So, I ordered one. And waited. And waited. And waited some more. Apple had to re-authorize the charge on my card twice before I received a nice e-mail that included the FedEx tracking number.  
 
Then I spent another week waiting, checking the FedEx tracking website for progress, and making sure someone was here to receive the package when it arrived.  
 
Even the box it arrived in screams, "I'm stylish, I'm beautiful, and GOOD GRIEF I'M FAST."  
 
Opening the black cardboard box reveals a sheet of cardboard over the accessories, including the keyboard and mouse, a phone cord, a USB extension cable (nice touch, Apple!) for those who'd like their keyboard to be a bit farther from the machine, and the power cable.  
 
Removing the G5 from its cradle of styrofoam, I just had to stop to admire the work. The case is made of plain matte-finished aluminum with an Apple logo embossed very lightly in a different texture. Unless you have the light just right, you won't even see it. All of the seams meet perfectly, and I found no irregularities at all.  
 
Setting the computer up was a snap. I set it on my desktop (fortunately for me, I don't use one of the "computer cubbies" so popular with home-office furniture - the G5 very likely wouldn't fit, being about 10% larger than my old Dual G4), plugged in the power cable, the USB cable for the keyboard and mouse, the video cable to the monitor, and the network cable to the hub. As a show of workmanship, Apple even had the end of the power cable molded to fit perfectly into the back of the computer to leave a flat surface instead of the normal "knobby" look that computers get around their power cords...  
 
Turning the machine on, I heard the familiar Apple chord, and it started right up. Seeing a welcome screen in several languages, I proceeded to fill in the little forms to register the machine...  
 
The last week has been a blur. The Dual G5 isn't just fast. It's *fast*. I can rip entire CDs to MP3 in approximately four minutes, and according to the CPU Monitor I'm not even maxing out the processors.  
 
The Box, or "What's With the Giant Cheese Grater On Your Desk?"  
 
More than one reviewer has suggested that the G5 with its front and back surfaces covered in holes looks like a giant cheese grater. I don't see that close a resemblance, myself - it looks more like a speaker grille to me. There are so many holes in the case that I understand the actual surface area to be reduced by about 35% - 65% of it is aluminum, and the front and back are 35% holes.  
 
The gorgeous aluminum case for the G5 houses three available PCI-X slots, the AGP slot, dual processors, a SuperDrive (DVD-R, CD-R, etc., all in one unit) and a 160GB hard drive.  
 
The back panel includes ports for USB 2.0, FireWire 400, FireWire 800, optical digital audio in and out, analog audio in and out, Gigabit Ethernet, a phone port for the modem, and two little connectors for internal Bluetooth and Airport Extreme. (Bluetooth is only available as a build-to-order option, and cannot be added internally post-purchase.) Also on the back panel is the latch to open the case - which is padlockable. A little metal tab folds out through the latch to provide a padlock hasp. Much more effective than the Kensington "security slot," I'm sure.  
 
The front panel has the power switch, a headphone jack, USB 2.0 and FireWire 400 ports. No longer do I have to reach around the back of a machine or USB hub to plug in my CompactFlash card reader to download pictures from the digital camera. Nor do I have to fumble around trying to connect a FireWire cable behind the machine to capture video.  
 
The Fans, or "The Sounds of Near-Silence"  
 
The Power Macintosh G5 has multiple "cooling zones" inside the machine. Remember all of those holes in the front and back? They're designed so that air can move from the front of the machine to the back and out in a "laminar" flow. This means reduced turbulence inside the machine, resulting in better airflow - and quiet. Turbulence means noise, too.  
 
You can remove the aluminum side panel to look inside the box while it's still running, but if you remove the clear plastic air deflector, the machine will automatically go to sleep so that it doesn't overheat. I've heard stories from other people who say that the fans will cycle up and down, and get very loud - I set the machine to "fastest," and the fans stay on all the time, and the box is still quieter than my old Dual G4 was (and it wasn't a WindTunnel/Mirrored Door Mac, either!) Even the SuperDrive spinning up to rip a CD to MP3 is louder than the fans are.  
 
Music, or "I Paid $3000 For A 3" Radio Shack Speaker?!?"  
 
The G5's internal speaker is, well, wimpy. That's the best I can say about it. Additionally, the G5 no longer supports the Apple Pro Speaker connector, so I can't use the Griffin ProSpeaker Cable to connect speakers to the machine.  
 
On the other hand, the optical digital audio out port means I can plug the G5 directly into a Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound amplifier or receiver, and have more audio wattage than I know what to do with. The analog audio-out port is also available to plug in a regular set of powered speakers.  
 
Video, or "Prepare For Warp Nine"  
 
The Dual G5 comes standard with an ATI Radeon 9600, 64MB of VRAM, dual output connectors... yes, you can connect two monitors to the same video card. The two connectors are the ADC, or Apple Desktop Connector, which supports Apple monitors with built-in USB hubs, and a DVI connector for other industry-standard LCD flat panel screens. The ADC connector itself supports the power and USB signal to the monitor, while the DVI connector provides nothing but video signal.  
 
Apple thoughtfully includes a DVI-to-VGA adapter in the box so one can connect a non-DVI flat panel screen (like the Samsung 171S), as well as regular HD-15 VGA monitors.  
 
Expansion Slots, or "What Do I Do With My Old Keyspan SX Pro Serial Card?"  
 
The PCI-X slots in the G5 only support 3.3v signaling. This means that a rather significant number of PCI cards will not even fit into the slot, let alone function. So, I need to upgrade from the old Keyspan SX Pro to a four-port USB-to-Serial adapter in order to connect my other machines' console cables.  
 
There are eight memory slots in the G5, two of which are occupied when you buy it. This makes for a current limit of 8GB of RAM, assuming you remove the original RAM and replace it with eight 1GB modules (2GB modules are supposed to become available, but I haven't seen any yet). This doesn't even come close to the maximum RAM addressable by the processor. With more RAM, the machine doesn't have to swap things in and out of virtual memory (located on the hard disk) and will be even faster than it was in the first place.  
 
There's one extra slot inside the machine for an additional Serial ATA hard drive. That's right - only two possible slots for hard drives. But since Serial ATA drives come in flavors up to 200GB or more, do you really need that much storage space?  
 
The Goodies, or "Not ANOTHER One-Button Mouse!"  
 
The G5 comes with a very nice keyboard and mouse. It is, unfortunately, yet another clear-bodied "one-button" Apple Optical Mouse. I never even unwrapped the mouse, opting to install my Kensington Turbo Pro Trackball and Nostromo SpeedPad n50 as my input devices. (Bonus: The Nostromo driver no longer kernel panics the machine!)  
 
Software Compatibility, or "The Upgrade Race"  
 
So far, I've been lucky. I have yet to find any of my current software rendered useless by moving to the G5. Virtual PC, on the other hand, is something that a number of my friends and acquaintances depend on for specific applications. The G5 simply won't run it - yet. Supposedly, an upgrade is on the way, but since it will require a ground-up rewrite of the application, I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for it.  
 
(Knock on wood) I haven't even managed to crash this one yet. Mac OS X 10.2.8 (G5) is the most stable iteration I've seen yet.  
 
Speed - Enough Said  
 
Have I mentioned how fast this machine is? In the course of writing this review, I've also ripped another 13 CDs to MP3, dumping them into the iTunes library. While ripping CDs, I've also been using iChat AV to talk to a friend of mine (using the iSight FireWire camera - a slick little piece of hardware!) and writing at the same time. It's fast  
 
I only wish Apple were as fast at building and shipping these speed demons!  
